# Classifying-AKT2-inhibitors-using-machine-learning-models-based-on-lipinski-molecular-descriptors
<br>

<br>
In search of key driver for the incident growth of metastasis, the serine/ threonine kinase AKT2 is found to be exceptionally expressed in late-stage colorectal cancer and metastatic tumors. Activation of AKT2 protein kinase elevates a series of cellular activities linked to the tumorigenesis, such as progression of cancer cell cycle, metabolism and cell proliferation giving an edge to the human pancreatic carcinomas. Again, exceeding genomic arrangements of AKT2 gene can be held responsible for HGSC (High-grade serous ovarian cancer), expected to be a lethal oncogene. Thus establishing a potent understanding of genetic mutations, epigenetic changes of AKT2 and its inductive role of accelerating carcinomas can serve as the decisive factor for developing a novel therapeutic strategy. The aim of this research is to predict and classify AKT2 inhibitors as potential active drug candidates in to encounter the incidence of cancer cell metastasis of different carcinomas.  We had preferred machine learning approach that is supposed to be more efficient and less time-consuming in drug discovery accession where the value of bioactivity unit IC50 is considered as the decisive parameter for proposing a compound to be either active or not for AKT2 inhibition. The dataset was trained on eight different classification models to establish the prediction method of AKT2 inhibition and to evaluate the bioactivity values while the ten-fold cross-validation method is further approached. Among all the classification models, XGBoost classifier has been revolted to serve the most efficient performance with an accuracy of 91.5% and a F1-score of 0.953.
